the American Health journal bringing you
the latest information on medicine
psychology diagnosis treatment and
prevention major medical advances are
made each week and each week the
American Health journal keeps you up to
date hello and welcome to this edition
of the American Health journal hair loss
in general affects about thirty-five
million men and twenty-one million women
just in the US alone
forty percent of men will have
noticeable hair loss by the age of 35
and 65 percent of women will have
noticeable hair loss by the time they're
60 we spoke with dr. Sanusi Umar of
Durham hair clinic who explains the
causes for hair loss when we talk about
hair loss first - male pattern baldness
in men or we call it pattern baldness -
also cover pattern baldness and women
that type of baldness is genetically
determined so if you are born with the
genetic predisposition to lose hair or
to have pattern baldness then at some
point in your life usually in your early
20s or late teens you will notice that
your hair is thinning and what happens
is your hair starts by gradually
miniaturizing in volume the size the
thickness of the hair starts shrinking
and as time goes on it shrinks and
disappears we asked dr. Umar about the
common myth about inheriting hair loss
from your mother's side of the family
well it is a myth to think that balls
runs in one side of the family and not
the other
the popular myth is that it's on the
mother's side but nothing can be further
from the truth
baldness is an equal opportunity
offender and in terms of the genetic
transmission has nothing to do with what
side of the father paternal or maternal
side no one can predict from your family
history how bald you will get dr. Kimura
explains pattern baldness pattern
baldness
you know you get genetic
predisposed to rain and what that
predisposes you to is your hair
follicles in the area of baldness
becomes sensitive to a substance called
DHT dihydrotestosterone which is one of
the breakdown products of your
testosterone so what happens is we all
have similar amount of DHT in our system
in our scalps what in the bald in person
or in the person that is pretty supposed
to pattern baldness the hair that is in
that area of thinness is particularly
sensitive to the DHT even though the
amount of DHT is normal that hair just
has receptors that makes it very
sensitive and it responds by just
miniaturizing and disappear in front in
dr. umar tells us if stress can be a
factor in hair loss your hair sometimes
is the first responder to your stressful
situation in life the hair can go into a
called telogen effluvium which is when
the hair just goes into resting phase
and at that point is susceptible to
being lost so that for instance might
precipitate a process that was going to
happen anyway but at a slower rate
it could be nutritional it could be
medications it could be anything that
will accelerate something that is
already there there are other causes for
hair loss
for instance in women in women hair loss
is never straightforward a good
proportion of them that whose hair loss
is caused by secondary factors that can
be treated tyroid disease for instance
iron deficiency anemia because of the
menstruation and many other things in
children alopecia areata which is an
autoimmune disease is a very common
cause of patchy baldness and that is
easily treatable and the list is very
long for things that can cause bonus but
it just so happens that when we say
baldness we're really talking about
pattern baldness